My daughter will be giving her first talk
in the Theocratic Ministry School tonight.
As a Christian father, I feel happy,
but I don’t know
if I deserve to feel this way.
I ran into some hard times spiritually
in the past.
I received the help of the elders.
They encouraged me,
telling me that I am precious
in Jehovah’s eyes and that I occupy
an important place among Jehovah’s people.
But, still, I am plagued
by feelings of guilt and worthlessness.
I wish I could just let go
of such feelings and be a strong father
and husband for my family,
but these discouraging thoughts continue
to drag me down.
My mistakes were well in the past.
I accepted the discipline
and applied the counsel that was provided.
And I have never fallen into the same course
of wrongdoing since then,
but my demanding heart
continues to condemn me.
I love Jehovah very much,
and I am grateful for his mercy,
but I just don’t feel
that I am precious in his eyes anymore.
The elders continued
to show sincere interest in me.
Their efforts really held me together
during those difficult times.
They encouraged me to always remember
that the way Jehovah views us
is much more important
than the way we view ourselves.
They used an illustration
to convince me of this point.
A boy used to train hard
for a marathon at school.
He wanted to make his father proud.
But at the actual race,
he fell midway through.
He thought his father
was no longer proud of him.
But the father told his son:
“You fell once,
but you stood back up and finished the race.
“I know you trained hard,
and I see your potential.
I am confident that you will succeed.”
They told me that Jehovah sees us
the way this father sees his son.
Even if I stumble and fall,
He still sees me as His precious son.
The elders also read to me
1 John 3:19, 20:
“By this we will know
that we originate with the truth,
“and we will assure our hearts before him
“regarding whatever our hearts
may condemn us in,
because God is greater than our hearts
and knows all things.”
They pointed out that the verb here
‘to assure’ can also mean ‘to persuade.’
I was encouraged that by studying
and meditating on the Scriptures
that I too could persuade
my stubborn heart before God.
That night
I was once again overwhelmed by self-doubt.
Reflecting on the account of King David
helped me to understand
how Jehovah really sees me.
As our Creator,
he is well-aware of our weaknesses
as well as our motives and our intentions.
Meditating on these things
helped me to regain my self-respect.
I also reflected on the example
of King Jehoshaphat
in 2 Chronicles chapter 19.
The prophet Jehu reproved Jehoshaphat
for allying himself with the wicked Ahab.
But Jehu also
reminded him
that Jehovah saw good things in him.
Through Jehu’s words and the writings
in the scrolls about Jehovah’s forgiveness,
Jehoshaphat was able to persuade
his self-condemning heart before Jehovah.
Jehovah can see past my mistakes as well.
He remembers my faithful service
and sees my true potential
and my sincere efforts to do his will.
Reading and meditating
on the Bible can change
our view of the situation
we find ourselves in.
Now I focus on the mercy
Jehovah has shown me,
and I don’t allow my anxieties
to rob me of my strength.
I feel like a heavy burden
has been lifted off my shoulders.
I thank Jehovah for persuading
my heart to believe that I too
can draw close to him
as one of his precious sons.